### Project with AI/ML

Develop your own original software project that meets the criteria listed below:

* The software must be executable on one or more school PCs in the classroom where the PV subject is taught, or on another school device in another classroom upon agreement with the teacher, and this must be without the use of an IDE.
* The software must have a meaningful real-world application, documentation, and instructions for launching and performing basic functions.
* The software must contain a model created using machine learning, and you must provide a Google Colab Jupyter Notebook with the process of its creation, or another process showing how it was created, trained, evaluated, etc.
* **The machine learning model must be created solely on the basis of real and true data that you collect yourself.**
* You must not use any ready-made and preprocessed dataset. You must also document the method of how you created or obtained the training and testing data, for example, by your own generation (video), crawling (current prices of goods), or possibly by HW measurement (temperature sensors, etc.). The documentation must contain a description of the origin and source of the data.
* The model can be classification, regression, or other, but it must demonstrate a real and useful prediction, classification, or other use.
* The data for training the model should contain a minimum of 1500 records and have a minimum of 5 attributes or parts. The data must be real and collected by you. Their preprocessing cannot be omitted, therefore you must obligatorily document to the data how the cleaning, scaling, and transformation, or possibly other processing processes took place.
* All source code that is not authored by you (i.e., not created by your own hand) must be in a separate folder that is suitably named, for example, *lib*, or *vendor*. It is therefore not possible to place both your authored code and foreign code in a single file. To separate foreign code, you must use files, libraries, packages, and function calls, by which you separate any foreign code. (Using comments or other marking is not sufficient.)

You will present not the project itself, but the process of its creation, i.e., how and why you made decisions at each step of development. During the presentation, you may be asked to make changes to the project. Evaluation will take place continuously throughout February and part of March. In addition to AI/ML, all other criteria (analysis, design, architecture, or for example testing, deployment, and documentation) that we normally use for evaluating SW projects will be evaluated.

Please note that even work that meets the above requirements can be of such low quality and trivial that it will be graded as insufficient. Work that the author fails to defend will also be graded as insufficient, for example, if it contains source code that the author does not mark as foreign and at the same time does not understand it, or if it contains ready-made data from prepared datasets, etc.

### FAQ

* **Can the data be created by simulation?** No. It must be real actual data, and you must be able to prove its reality and truthfulness. It is therefore not possible, for example, to generate random data or otherwise use simulations.
* **What happens if I do not understand some lines of code and cannot explain them during the defense?** The work will be evaluated as fraud and graded as insufficient.
* **What happens if I copy some lines of code from the internet, or another person advises me on them and I do not understand them?** If you do not provide a source, it will be considered fraud and the entire work will be graded as insufficient, even if there were only a few lines. However, you can move code that you do not understand or is not yours into third-party libraries. Then it will not be viewed as yours and it will be enough if you know how to use it.
* **What happens if I generate some lines of code with ChatGPT or another generator and I do not understand them?** It will be taken the same as if you copied them from the internet, or someone else did them for you. We recommend moving code that you do not understand or is not yours to third-party libraries. Pay close attention to various generators of the "designer" type, because if you use them, you must understand all the generated lines and explain their purpose, or be able to make manual adjustments to them upon request of the evaluator.
* **Can I submit my long-term graduation work, a project from another subject, etc.?** Yes. It is possible to submit any work that meets the assignment and does not violate other rules, especially the copyright act, commercial code, school rules, EU legislation, etc.
* **What happens if the project cannot be launched at school?** The project will be graded as insufficient and we will not deal with it further. Deployment of the project, i.e. deployment at the customer's on their equipment, is a main part of this work. It does not matter whether the project works in your version of VisualStudio, Unity, or Database; what is important in practice is that the customer can run it, not you.
* **Can external auxiliary HW (for example, a web-cam) be used during the defense, provided that the program runs on a school PC?** Yes, whatever you manage to connect to the school device (external HW, web servers, anything) can be used and is welcome. However, the fact must be preserved that your program is controlled or interacts using the school device.
* **Is it allowed to use APIs, for example, Facebook?** Yes, of course, the use of APIs is even necessary for some types of data collection.
